Retired U.S.
Army General David Petraeus,
also the former director of the CIA.
He has a brand new book titled
Conflict The Evolution of Warfare
from 1945 to Ukraine.
General, always good to have you on.
One of the things
that struck me about the book,
which is an area of expertize
which is something that I hope
the Israelis are reading
is about urban combat
and the 2004 battle of Fallujah,
the largest of the Iraq war Bloody
costly street by street.
And we had General Kimmitt here
not long ago
and he was saying that what Israel
is going to face, what the Israeli forces
are going to face in Gaza will be probably
even more grueling than Fallujah.
What do you think it will be?
Orders of magnitude more difficult.
The enemy has had months
to prepare the defenses.
They'll undoubtedly employ
improvised explosive devices, suicide
bombers, car bombs, tunnels,
a lot of infrastructure that they have.
They know the territory very, very well.
And it's many times the size of Fallujah.
We did a number of urban operations
over those years.
And then more recently, we watched one
that might be more appropriate
as an analogy,
which was the Iraqi security forces
supported by a US led coalition
clearing the Islamic State
out of Mosul, a city about the same size
as Gaza City.
And again, it's very, very challenging
fighting in this hospital bombing.
And by the way, I'll take the side
of the IDF spokesman any day over Hamas.
Needless to say, there are in a democracy,
the truth is going to come out.
They know it.
And they've done apparently a very good
and thorough investigation quite quickly.
But in the case of urban combat,
you're going
to have tremendous damage
to civilian infrastructure.
You're going to have considerable civilian
loss.
You're going to take
a lot of friendly casualties.
You don't just have to clear every
building floor, a room basement tunnel.
You have to leave substantial forces
behind, or else the enemy will REINFELDT
And you have to do this
progressively sequentially.
You have to clear and hold and then
continue farther, spread the oil spot.
In fact, it really should be thought
of as a counterinsurgency operation,
not just a
conventional military operation,
because you are fighting among the people
and because of the importance
of not overlooking
what happens after Hamas is destroyed.
And by the way, a spokesman today said
they also intend to dismantle the Hamas
political structure, the political wing
that's different from the military wing
which is the Hamas terrorists
and also the Islamic Jihad terrorists.
Right.
But then the question is, what next?
Who's going to take over?
Who's going to oversee?
There has to be nation building.
There's going to be restoration
of basic services, repair of damaged
infrastructure, getting schools,
markets, clinics all reopened.
You know that we've learned all of that
sometimes the hard way.
We learned in the fight to Baghdad
that you've got to have a very good plan
with a lot of different assumptions,
because once you take down the regime
and you turn to the folks
that said, just get us to Baghdad, Dave,
we'll take it from there.
That plan proved inadequate.
So I think the big subject of discussion,
I suspect already between
the Israeli generals and the political
authorities is about what comes after.
They're going to take enormous casualties
to do this.
I believe that is right to destroy Hamas.
But you can't have that for naught.
This can't be another case
where you mow the lawn
all the way down to the dirt in this case.
But then you pull back out
and the remnants will be able
to reconstitute themselves.
So what follows?
Could there be an interim
international authority? What is it?
I don't I doubt
I mean, the ambassador told me
Sunday
that they do not want to reoccupy no.
Gaza.
So, I mean, I think the president has said
don't do it.
So it has to be some other.
So what the United Nations
or the Arab League or some group
is going to have to fight
because there will be an insurgency
you know, they'll try to retake, control
the remnants of Gaza and there will be
of Hamas.
There will be some of those there.
So this is the real challenge, Jake.
And I'm not sure it's getting quite enough
attention.
In the book, we talk about the importance
of a strategic leader
getting the big ideas right.
This is crucial.
Getting the strategy right.
Vengeance is not a strategy
And that's my next question.
Component is some,
but you have to do more.
And that's my next question
because I've been thinking about
how and understandably so,
but how immediate and swift the response
by the Israeli
military was in the aftermath of Hamas's
barbaric terrorist attack on October 7th,
which, of course, reminds me of nine 11.
And you remember when I interviewed you
when I did the documentary,
about 20 years of war in Afghanistan.
And I also interviewed General McChrystal
for that same documentary.
And he told me something interesting,
and I want to get your your take on it,
because I said, if you could go back,
what would you do differently?
Listen to your your colleague
and friend, General McChrystal,
right after the nine 11 attacks.
I would have made a decision
inside the U.S.
government
to do nothing substantive for a year.
What I mean by nothing, no bombing,
no strikes, etc.
I would have gone around the world
as the aggrieved party
and built up a firm coalition for what
what we do about al Qaeda.
I would have done a mass effort to train
Americans in Arabic Pashtu,
Urdu, Dari, to get ourselves
ready to do something that we knew
would be very, very difficult.
Now, I said to him,
if you were a president,
you also would be impeached for not doing
it, for not doing anything
after the nine 11 attack.
He has a point, but but he has a point.
And guys have a point.
And I want you to talk about that,
about the idea of
you get you get horrifically hit,
but you take a breath before responding.
Yes. Keep in mind, this is much worse
than nine elevenths in relative terms.
It's like 35,000 people being killed.
Jake, it's actually over 40,000
now because they're up to 1300.
So. Yes.
And so that response, the desire for
vengeance is absolutely understandable.
And there should be vengeance.
There should be destruction
of the organization that did this but
not if you haven't thought through
what comes after that.
And that's, I think, the component of this
that certainly is not yet visible.
I'm sure that they're wrestling with this.
I'm sure part of the reason
the president is going to Amman,
Jordan, is to start discussing that.
And one would hope that
some of the Arab countries in particular
in the region that have often
expressed sympathy for the Palestinians,
will contribute to some kind of effort
that would enable the rebuilding
and so in Prime Minister Netanyahu,
I think, should provide a vision
for what life will be like
for the Palestinian people,
not just in Gaza, by the way,
but also in the West Bank, something
that has just been looming out there
for quite some time In any event,
let's let's let this be a catalyst.
Remember, after the 73 war,
all of a sudden you
had peace between the two warring factions
between Egypt and Israel and arrangements
with Syria and Jordan as well.
Of course, a very different situation.
Henry Kissinger,
I was just in a meeting with him.
He could call for people and get that deal
done.
President of Egypt
Assad in Damascus, the king in Amman,
and Golda Meir.
Yeah, there's nobody here to do that.
So you've got this is much
more challenging in that regard.
And I'd contended the military task
here is more challenging as well.
It's not tank on, tank out in the desert.
Certainly,
there was an existential moment for Israel
when Egypt achieved the early success.
But once that was resolved, that was a
straightforward military operation.
This is much more than just an offensive
operation, a clear hold and build.
You have to
then have what's going to follow.
Absolutely.
Retired General David Petraeus,
maybe they should call you.
You'd be you'd be good to help this.
The book is Conflict the Evolution
of Warfare from 1945 to Ukraine.
Please check it out.